Hello and welcome to another code walkthrough for Django for Everybody. In this we're going to walk
through the how to handle pictures and in our DJ free samples I'm gonna walk through the code so
so first let's walk through just how it basically works it's a CRUD application this is CRUD and now
we have this browsing to upload a file and so we'll upload that file and then when we look at it
we're going to see it if I click on the picture I get kind of this overlay view that's all JavaScript
and then I hide it and I can upload it I can edit and delete it so let me kind of walk through how
this works so first off let's take a look at urls.py there's nothing particularly special that the
whole pattern is kind of the same I'll come back to this particular URL the actual picture the thing
that in a sense serves the picture so if I open this view the image in a new tab well it's this
it's this URL that's actually serving the image this image is stored in the database and so we'll
come back to that particular one it's the stream file view okay so let's go back to all pics and
let's start taking a look first let's go at the model first because this is where everything starts
sure let's go put the model here put the views there and the forms there okay so let's start the
model we'll start from the back and forwards so if we were to go look at the admin I think I've
got the admin hidden in this particular one let's take a look at admin.py yeah I'm gonna
so this is one of the things let me show you how the admin works I hope I got admin going
probably don't have my admin account oh there we are we have admin so if I'm to take a look at the
pics so it turned out that I didn't want either of these these two things to show up because it
turned out it made it difficult because I wouldn't couldn't update things so you won't see picture or
content type here in admin and I do that by excluding this and instead of doing the shortcut
I am going to register for the for the model pic this particular class and it allows me to have
this class wide variable called exclude so that I don't show those things and so that's that's
just a little trick on admin so that when you see it when they're in the database they're just not
there because you can't because the admin interface is not smart enough to update these pictures the
way I want to update them so I'm going to hide that so in the model we've got a binary field which
is like a blob if you're into databases and I'm allowing it to be null and blank and editable and
then there is this thing called the content type and the content type is open this in a
new window and I copy this location so if I were to do a view develop a console network one of the
things when you're serving images is that you've got to you've got to set the MIME type so this is
a get request and it's sent a bunch of data but if I look at the headers here the response header
includes this header called the content type oh no that was the icon what am I doing persist logs
I'll clear this it's not the icon that was the icon but let me retrash this and so this is the
actual PNG and then the icon comes as well of course the icons that little picture but the
content type is image slash PNG and that's really important when you're uploading the file you get
to have it and then you have to send it back out otherwise the browser will not know how to properly
format this so that is what is here right that's the content type it's just a string field the
content type is just a string but it's very important to track it so when I am in a on add
when I upload the file and I pick it it's actually communicated to me as part of the uploaded data
but I got to remember it I got to actual pixels go in here and the content type goes in its own
character character field the pixel goes into about the pixels of the picture the actual colors and
stuff go into this binary field and I'm going to use the owner so we're going to have this we did
this before we have an owner and that's just going to be automatically created when I there's a
there's a owners.py there's a owners.py so there's owners.py and I mean the owner.py from the
previous thing and that gets all taken care of in the views so all we got it's pretty much a
standard thing except we've got these two things and those are hidden from the admin so now let's
take a look at the views and so we're going to use the owner views again and those are automatically
handling all of the detail of setting the owner field and there is just not a single line of code
in here that has anything to do with setting the owner field I set have this owner field in my model
and then I just extend for all of my other views I extend that okay so I have an owner list view
an owner detail view and you'll notice those do not require login I'm gonna specify the template
name I'm getting a little tired of just remembering I don't necessarily like their naming conventions
and so this I'm gonna have my own template names here and create view this one you're
gonna make one okay and we're gonna have a get request it's like going back because I can't quite
make this one complete and my post request and so the post request yeah I'm gonna so I'm just this
I might have been able to extend something or put inside but I'm just gonna do all the work you'll
notice I'll walk through this this will be a good review of that so let's just look at the let's
look at the pick create view next so let's take a look at forms HTML so now let's look at forms.py
so the create form so if you if you think about it if you recall right there is the views in the
middle views and then the thing that talks to the browser that really controls our relationship with
a browser is the form and a thing that controls our relationship with a database is the model
right so the view is interacting with the form to get what it needs to do and then it kind of
transports it to the model so that would be kind of like a controller function if we're thinking
a model view controller this would be but that's okay so so so the form the form is what determines
all of what's going on on this screen and then the model yeah oh yeah that's not that looks
really not good the model is what is going on back here and so you can think of the view is like
manipulating both the form escape both the form and the model and so it's interacting with them
and so you'll see when it's doing things in the beginning like clear escape okay so you'll you'll
see that in the view when it's doing its work it's working with the form and then eventually it's
working with the model toward the end okay and so to some degree this post request is to get data
from the form and handle everything when it's doing it so that's let's avoid to some degree
the hardest bits we'll come back to that in a second so let's go and hit cancel and then add a
pick add a pick basically runs this get request so we're going to grab the form it's the create
form and there's a little bit of work in here there's the create form and we're going to jack
into just object-oriented ways we're going to jack into the clean we're going to jack into the
save but for now all it's doing is this bit right here that you've been using for a while and so
we're going to tell it what we're going to make a picture form and so here's a thing so there is a
file field and so we're asking the form to include a file field okay and so that's what puts out this
file to upload less than or equal to megabytes we've got a little bit of code to both have a
numeric limit of the size max upload limit that's just a class-wide variable and then the max upload
limit text which is that in text and that little file to upload less than or equal to two megabytes
that's because I'm doing this in the form so I've got a little bit of logic in the form and it is a
model form which means that it takes its it takes its input from it you know I don't have to put
these things in there but I do have to tell it which things I actually want to do and so I want
the title in the text I don't want the owner and create it at an update or kind of automatically so
that's why I've got the fact that inherit from the pick model which is this model inherit from the
pick model and include title text and picture now title and text come from the model and picture
comes from right here so we're we're not it if Django were our friend it would understand this
would be a file field but it's not and so we have to actually manipulate it and convert it it's not
hard but in between the view I mean the form in the model we got to do a bit of work and we do it
here in forms.py okay so meta okay so this part here in the top is all that is affected to create
this screen right so that's what the get is doing so if we look at the get it makes a form and then
it renders it to self template which is picked stop form dot HTML and here we go it's pretty
straightforward now we're just going to load our crispy form tag extend our base bootstrap put out
the CSRF token pretty up the form and crispy and that's sort of everything from title and to file
upload and then we have a submit button and a cancel button so one of the things that we're
going to do is we are going to add some jQuery and that is we're going to connect into this form and
when the submit button is pressed we're going to run this JavaScript code so that this line right
here upload form submit function that makes it so that whenever the submit button whenever this
submit button here is pressed on this form this jQuery is going to run and so we will do a web
developer well it's not going to do us much good because actually we can so I will I'll show you
how that works so what we're going to do here is this a bit of code I got this off stack overflow
right there and what I'm going to do basically is I'm going to read whether or not this file
is greater than or equal to two megabytes so if it's greater than two megabytes I'm going to stop
and complain with an alert statement so this is JavaScript and returning false here says I'm not
going to upload it so let me create one with some stuff and let me browse let me find a really large
file okay so now I'm going to do a web developer JavaScript console oh and by the way let me do a
view source on this so you can kind of see that it you can see all the stuff that came from base
bootstrap and you can see there's the CSRF token there is the file input types and then here's
submit and then here's the JavaScript at the bottom and this JavaScript is running code out
of jQuery and we'll talk about jQuery right now we'll just look at it as JavaScript and we happen
to be using the jQuery library okay so now what I'm going to do is I'm going to press submit and
I'll watch this console I'm going to press the submit button and code is going to run and you're
going to see the JavaScript run and it's not going to be happy with this file Sakai ladies of Sakai
because it's too big I think yeah so there you go look it's a checking file size and it complained
that this ladies of Sakai camp type must be less than two megabytes which is exactly what I wanted
and so that I I enforce that rule right here okay now it turns out that I got to also enforce it in
the server because somebody could easily just override that and force it to be uploaded but
but you see that the JavaScript is running in this browser and it's kind of protecting it other than
that this looks pretty much like a standard crud thing except very importantly if you're uploading
files you've got to say and type equals multi-part slash form data and that has to do with the format
that the data is sent if you just have like a few text fields then you don't need this but if you
have longer things like files you need that and so that is how we get through the get request okay
so now let me pick a better file pong my favorite that's dangerous one of my earliest I don't know got
so many little files Apple iPhone I don't know whatever so this one's nice less than two and I'm
going to hit the post so I'm gonna hit the submit now the post is going to come through and it's
going to run this code right here and this is probably the trickiest part of this code so if
you recall we can construct a create form and get it back and we pull the data request dot post now
it turns out that these little attached files like Apple iPhone Sakai JPEG comes in in request dot
files and or none just is just in case it's not there okay and so what happens is is this is where
we're going to do some of our work we're going to actually pull data from this request dot files
and so we're going to jack into the clean so clean is one of the life cycles of a model form
I mean once the data comes in it's going to ask to be cleaned so what we do is we call the super
call the super class the model form class and do the clean there it doesn't know anything about
picture because we're the one that added that okay but then we get the data in cleaned data and I
it's a it's a dictionary at that point and so I can get the picture so remember that the form is
the part that's coming in from the browser right and then I can make the picture I can get it from
there if I got no picture it's I don't need to do anything special right if I do I am checking to
see if the amount of data that I got from that upload is greater than that upload limit it's it's
good so this is mostly here to check to make sure I'm cleaning the data I'm not actually saving it
but I am grabbing the picture from the form and I'm checking to see if it's greater than two megabytes
and then I'm going to add this is what you do in clean clean is just to say a nasty message now in
this case the nasty message I showed you before came from JavaScript but if you somehow trick
tricked my JavaScript and sent it this clean would catch it so if I'm my view here clean is
happening right now form is valid happens afterwards so it's a side effect of clean you're saying is the
form valid and if there was an error from this or if there was an error like my title was too short
right then it would come back and say titles greater than two characters oh we love crispy forms
look how pretty errors aren't crispy forms that is running this little bit of code right here if the
form is not valid and it could have been and in that particular case the super got upset right
because because this min length validator triggered and so the super got upset and set form was not
valid now mine looked good right so but now the picture is gone so I can make a slightly longer
title here and browse completely I don't know what I'm doing these are really old pictures of mine so
now it's gonna pass it's gonna pass this is gonna pass and I'm gonna grab this and I'm gonna do my
own check that's sort of a double check on this less than two megabytes because even though the
client protects you and that's the you more user friendly because this is gonna this is catching
it after the upload happened and that might be long two megabytes doesn't take that long but now
it's going to come and it's gonna pass this and skip and then it's going to come here and it worked
so here's what's happening so you've got the form the form has like took all that data including
the file right and cleaned it all up and I'm gonna call form dot save commit equals false and then
I'm gonna set the owner field because I'm not extending owner view here so I got to set that
owner view because I'm gonna ultimately override both this post and the get and I wasn't gonna get
much help out of owner at that point and then I'm gonna save the model so form dot save gives me
back a model if I don't say commit equals false it actually does the pick dot save also so if you
save the form without commit equals false commit equals false means don't store it in the database
okay so let's take a look at what's going on here in form dot save so I have also overridden form
dot save and I'm just behaving commit equals true is a default but when I say commit equals false
then commit will be false and so I have got to call the super right actually this is really not
right oh I want oh no actually no matter what the commit is this is the end users wish for commit I
am going to do a super and I'm gonna run a save with commit false no matter what this person wants
it to give me commit true or not I'm gonna run commit false then what I've got to do is I've got
to grab the picture the picture from the form I'm in a form and I check to see if this is an in memory
uploaded file and there's all kind of cool magic that's happening right here it's got this all it's
in memory it's got this thing it's an object it's really nice and then what I say is give me all the
data the byte array which reads all of the pixels of the file and then F dot content type is that
image slash PNG and I then need to put that in the instance which is the model I've got to add to it
the byte array of the text and the content type I've got to store both of those things and now I'm
talking to the database the picture oops a picture and the content type are being set as part of the
save then what I do is if commit is true now I'm trying to mimic the save behavior now I'm only using
this one way right with commit equals false but someone might leave this out and call my call my
form I'm supposed to actually save the model if commit is true but in this case commit will be
false so I'm just going to return the instance at this point I have an object model an object
model and in that object model all these two fields are exactly the way they want to be and
the only thing I've got to do is set the owner field which I'm doing right there and then I'm
storing it in the database and then I redirect and that's how it works it's pretty cool you got to
kind of get your object oriented Zen thing going and pretty awesome so I'll just go through the
update view because it's not that different than the create view so it looks the same on the get
we're going to go grab the old copy out of the database and then we're gonna make a form and
inherit all the old data now in this one it's not gonna put the picture out there it'll just put out
a new one so if I'm in the edit right here it's gonna it's not going to put the picture here but
it'll let me put a new picture here because that's in the form but all the old data is sitting right
here and then and then that renders the update form and then I make my changes blah blah blah blah
blah blah right blah blah blah and then and then when I post it it's going to do this create form
and the difference is it's going to do a get object or 404 so that it it pulls that old data
from the database and then it does the validation automatically it calls this clean to do that
validation and then then we save it etc and so that's how it actually updates all of this stuff
so the only thing left to take a look at is the detail page and so some of these things we don't
have detail pages and some we do so let's take a look at this one right so this detail page looks
just about like every detail page let's go take a look at the view and and so it's pretty good I
mean we're just it looks we're using the same code that we've used for everything and we're using
owner detail view we're telling it with model to use and I'm going to use pics detail and most of
this like again humanizes to make times and dates look better I'll get back to that CSS in a bit
here you have we'll come back to this too in a second I'm just showing you the parts that are like the
way you've been doing it it's got the buttons for the update this is part of the owner code right if
the owner is the user we're gonna write a pencil on a trash little icon and then print out the title
and then the text and then some all right some all stuff okay so that's what's familiar let's
now talk about what's different so let's first talk about the HTML that generates this little
picture so if I do an inspect element we'll see that what we've got here is image style float
right max with that some CSS but the source here is pics pic picture 3 and so if you look what I'm
doing here is I'm going to the pics pic picture view and then the pic ID and that pic ID is just
the pic that came in and if we go back to URLs now that's this one and it goes into stream view
stream file and it passes in you know an integer number as the variable PK so let's go take a look
at that so that's this one and it's and I you'll notice that this is not a class-based one it's an
old-school one mostly because hey I'm just gonna do get the class-based one we can do def get and
def post but this one I'm just gonna do an old-school thing passes in the request in the
first parameter which of course is that number three that's the primary key of the image that
we're trying to see right so I'm going to do a get object or 404 and of the type pick and I'm
gonna look it up by its primary key which is that three and now I have it and so I'm going to send
an HTTP response but this is not a text response nor is it HTML response this is where that content
type going back to the model remember this is the mind type that image slash PNG and so just come
back so as part of the response so now if I can get this guy to open in a new can I make that guy
come on open a new page can I do that page you image is that gonna work well okay I guess it's
sort of worked one of you image in this view image in okay that's what I'll just go back and put this
in by itself so now I can see that this is the this is the URL that generates the picture now
the picture is sitting in my database right but if I do view the developer and go into network
and clear the network and make sure I've got all sort of clear persist logs and disable cache now
if I hit refresh we're gonna see that it's coming back and the response content type is image dash
PNG so to set that to set this and that's essential so that when the browser is seeing the pixels it
knows that this is a PNG not a JPEG or a GIF or an MPG or a PDF or whatever so this content type
is something that we stored we got it when we were doing the post and we pulled it in we took
all that stuff and if you look at forms.py it was grabbing it here in the save method and we
got it from the form and then we stored it in the database and now we've got it back from the
database and so we're just saying the content type which is a header is pic.content type that's
a string and then we also have to tell it how long it is but pic.picture is the actual pixels
that are the picture and you have to tell it how long it is so if you look at content length right
there 470,152 yeah 470 152 so that's content length we knew that from the database and then
we actually write the pixels and the place you see this is when you click on response now it's
basically showing you yeah that's a picture but if you if you really looked at it it's just you
know bits and bytes and a complete gibberish and so that's what it takes to send that stream out
and so that's what makes it so that when I have an image tag when I have this image tag I can source
but I'm actually feeding that picture okay so so that's how the picture gets there but then I'm
going to show you how when I click on this picture I get this overlay and then when I click on the
overlay it goes away now that this is there's all kind of fancy things and bootstrap has modals I
did this with the simplest and crudest of CSS and JavaScript tricks okay so let's take a look at how
I did that at that point now we're in JavaScript so first thing I've got is a CSS and it's this
overlay position fixed and and you'll see that I have a div tag that has the picture in it and
it's got a whole bunch of CSS in it the width is 90% the margin top the border is 3 pixel with a
solid black so you'll see this it's 90% of the width it's got a 3 pixel margin it's a the margin
top is 50 pixels so there's 50 pixels here and so so that picture is there but because this class
equals overlay all this other stuff is there as well so that's not the picture that's the rest of
it so you can see that this is fixed which means it overlaps this div and the rest of the page this
div right here and the rest of the page are like two layers z-index is 10 puts it on top 100%
width 100% height display none means it starts out hidden and then I've got kind of this little gray
you see this little gray bit right and then the image has this style the width 90% margin top 50
pixels that's giving me the border and the margin and making it 90% wide okay well let me get rid
of it or hit refresh so it's not there it's not there but if I do a view page source you page
source it is there it is there it's just hidden right it's hidden because I told it to be hidden
here so it starts out hidden so how does it unhide well if I look I've got this image here this is
the actual image that's this image that's really showing on the page and I've got an on click at a
JavaScript so on click so what I'm doing is I got an on click there and then I say document dot get
element by ID overlay which is looking for whatever tag has ID equals overlay and then
I'm changing its display from hidden to block so when I when that on click happens when I click
on goodbye goodbye so when I click on this image I've got an on click event anywhere in this image
that is going to show this other div so this other div poof pops out now what I've got is
an on click method on that div so that I can click anywhere anywhere in here including the
picture or the background because that's part of the overlay the overlay is the entire div in the
background so I can click anywhere click and then that triggers this document get element ID style
display none so I it's still there it's hidden so I can bring it up I can hide it I can bring it up
I can hide it I can bring it up I can hide it and I tried to make this one as simple as possible there
are prettier ways and people put a little X box X up here and that hides it they make a whole modal
they use bootstrap they use all kinds of clever things this is like the least clever way to make
a full screen semi full screen pop-up of an image using a bit of JavaScript here and a bit of
JavaScript here and then some just slightly clever CSS and I'm sure I found most of this on stack
overflow somewhere so I hope that you found this particular walkthrough of how to add images to
a CRUD application useful so hope you found it useful cheers